# Improvement_of_OSPF_using_the-_using_the_methodologies_of_EIGRP_protocol
Rwsolving the shortcomings of the Open Shortest Path First protocol using the methodologies of Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol(EIGRP). 
A routing protocol specifies how routers communicate with each other, distributing information that enables them to select routes between any two nodes on a computer network. Routers perform the "traffic directing" functions on the Internet; data packets are forwarded through the networks of the internet from router to router until they reach their destination computer. Routing algorithms determine the specific choice of route. Each router has a prior knowledge only of networks attached to it directly. A routing protocol shares this information first among immediate neighbours, and then throughout the network. This way, routers gain knowledge of the topology of the network. The ability of routing protocols to dynamically adjust to changing conditions such as disabled data lines and computers and route data around obstructions is what gives the Internet its survivability and reliability
The specific characteristics of routing protocols include the manner in which they avoid routing loops, the manner in which they select preferred routes, using information about hop costs, the time they require to reach routing convergence, their scalability, and other factors.
Although there are many types of routing protocols, three major classes are in widespread use on IP networks:
•	Interior gateway protocols type 1, link-state routing protocols, such as OSPF and  
•	Interior gateway protocols type 2, distance-vector routing protocols, such as Routing Information Protocol(RIP), IGRP.
•	Exterior gateway protocols are routing proto/;p0cols used on the Internet for exchanging routing information between Autonomous Systems, such as Border Gateway Protocol (BGP), Path First Vector Routing Protocol. Exterior gateway protocols should not be confused with Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP), an obsolete routing protocol.
Further in the project we will study OSPF and EIGRP protocols and apply the  methodologies of EIGRP protocol to enhance or improve the shortcomings of the OSPF protocol. Our main aim is to make the OSPF protocol more efficient as EIGRP is a CISCO  proprietary and only available for cisco devices, so applying its properties to OSPF, all the devices can benefit globally.            	

This project aims at resolving the shortcomings of the Open Shortest Path First protocol using the methodologies of Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol(EIGRP). As EIGRP is a CISCO proprietary, only CISCO products can benefit from them, hence this project aims at providing the benefits of EIGRP protocol, globally to all routers working on Open Shortest Path First.
